ORDOÑA, Jan Anthony H.							
VERTSOL - O0A

Thesis # 1 : Markets are conversations.

In 1999, the Clue Train Manifesto written by Rick Levine, Christopher Locke, Doc Searls, and David Weinberger was released.  The manifesto is a set of 95 theses organized for all businesses in the face of the rising popularity of the internet technology in commerce.  One of the 95 theses is Markets are Conversations. 

I strongly agree with this thesis.  In a market, there is a buyer and seller and for them to understand each other, it is important that they exchange ideas about the product or service being offered for sale. The seller must communicate to the prospective buyer the good things about his product and the prospective buyer must communicate to the seller what he wants or what his needs are.  Simply put, there has to be conversation between them. If both sides agree to a common term or terms, like price and payment method, then sale is consummated.  

At this modern time where the whole marketplace is connected through the internet and where borderless transactions are a reality, the concept of conversations takes on a new dimension.  Companies need to take advantage of new tools lie Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and corporate blogs to enhance the conversation between the company and the consumers.  Companies need to listen to the consumers who are themselves interconnected and have fast access to available information.   A person buying a desktop computer, for example, has access to the products available in the market.  He visits the websites of the sellers for specific information like price and promos, join the different forums available in the internet and eventually arrive at an intelligent decision which computer to buy and from what company.  A company that neglects to engage consumers in a conversation where he learns about their ever-changing needs and preferences will eventually ease himself out of business.  

“Markets are Conversations” is new way of expressing what quality gurus have been chanting all along…”Customer Focus is the Key”.  By listening to them, companies will be able to know what their needs are and meet or even exceed them.  “Markets are Conversations” acquire more relevance in the face of the emergence of the internet and new social media.
